Hey guys welcome back to the course.
Here's another best practice to fall.
Being clear is better than being clever.
Even if you're the only person using or looking at the model that you're creating.
So what makes a model clear.
While it's readable with labels that are self-explanatory the flow is logical and easy to follow and
it's usable 12 months later you can come back and easily figure out how to use it.
And if you handed off to a business partner or anti-me they can figure out exactly what you're doing
even if they didn't build a piece of it.
So especially if you're going to be sharing your model with partners or investors you're going to have
to make it very clear.
So let's look at our recent jumpstart model we're doing with the multiple locations right.
We had five locations here in this setup here makes this so that the core assumptions around each location
is very easy to read.
We know exactly what the assumptions are right and we know here are the global assumptions.
So one of the things that makes models clear rather than clever is to not hide any assumptions is to
pull all the assumptions out.
Right.
And to have the main logic very visible.
So if we look at any of the individual locations we see that all of the locations have the same structure
and because of the highlighting of the core assumptions we see that that's what's different.
Right.
That's what's different there.
But otherwise the logic is exactly the same and it's easy to follow from the top down.
And with Summary sheet.
Same thing with the top down.
Now you don't have to like the colors you can use whatever you want you can have lines and set of colors.
But for me I'm making this for myself and I'm making this for other people to be able to clearly distinguish
the sections here.
Right here I'm talking about the customers going from traffic stops to purchases and then I'm talking
about Cupps soul and designating there.
And then here I'm talking about revenues and then here are the operating expenses which includes the
cost of goods sold and then profits at the bottom.
You don't have to like the colors to be able to easily see the different sections.
So the other thing about making it clear rather than clever is for summary parts for you to pull from
all the components be able to hide them when you need to but have the summaries there.
The reason you wouldn't want say to have all of these just to be part of this line is because if you
made a mistake you wouldn't be able to see and pinpoint it right.
So if there was a calculation that was wrong here that doesn't look right compared to what I would expect.
I can drill down and see maybe which location is coming from where the error is from Whereas if I had
all the formulas all these values just kind of all rolled into here it would be really harder for me
to see because I can actually visualize the individual components.
So when you have more components Yes the model does get bigger but bigger and clearer is better than
elegant and hard to use or hard to identify.
So some of you may be developers that may become from the Ruby on Rails backgrounders.
You know there's some philosophy there around being super elegant.
And then the code is like art but then anybody else looking at it wouldn't know what the hell the original
person was trying to do.
And it's not very easy to maintain.
So don't use that approach here with modeling you rather get bulkier than get lighter and confusing.
Now I'm not saying you have to format things a certain way.
You might hate using color so you can use other ways to visually segment the different sections of your
model.
The point is to make it clear that you have different sections you don't have to make your inputs blue
with yellow highlights or make your negative numbers red.
You should just make them look different so that it can be easily seen.
So definitely separate the calculations and the logical steps and don't combine them do one thing at
a time and then do the next thing.
That's why we don't combine traffic with stops with purchases into one single calculation because if
you have an issue it would be really hard to separate them and we wouldn't know how to fix them.
It's much harder to maintain that way.
So it's better to be clear than to be clever even if that means a bigger model with more lines of calculations.